This readme file will show you how to use the "app-1" application for viewing Italy's level of broadband access.

The application is very straightforward: you'll find all the informations on how to visualize data in the 
left panel of the interface. Use the options to toggle visualization's inputs. Please note that the "number of
observations" widget refers only to the third tab: "table".

there are two ways to launch the app: via github and via R studio. Both require Rstudio to function. 

HOW TO RUN THE APP VIA GITHUB

1) open RStudio. install shiny, ggplot2 and readr packages with the command:
   install.packages(c("shiny","readr","ggplot2"))


2) load the shiny package by copypasting and executing the command: library(shiny) in a new rscript.

3) copypaste and execute the command: runGitHub("DS-Projects","AlessandroMirone", ref = "main")


HOW TO RUN THE APP VIA R STUDIO

1) extract the zipped folder into your working directory. You can file the .rar file in the "app.r" folder
   (if you don't know what your working directory is, run the command getwd() in an empty r script)
   you should have an unzipped folder named "app-1", containing 
   an R file named App.1 and two folder, named "data" and "www".

IMPORTANT:   
DO NOT rename the files inside app-1. (app-1 can be renamed, but if you do
   be sure to match the folder's new name in runApp('folder's new name')(see below).Rename app-1
   only if you have another folder in your working directory with the same name as 
   app-1 and you are unable to change working directory. 

2) open RStudio and set the directory containing app-1 as your working
   directory with the function setwd() (if you pasted app-1 in your working directory you can skip this
   passage)

3) install shiny, ggplot2 and readr packages with the command:
   install.packages(c("shiny","readr","ggplot2"))

4) load the shiny package. To do so, copypaste library(shiny) into your script and execute.

5) copypaste runApp('app-1') into your script and execute. To see the code while using the app, 
   copypaste runApp('app-1', display.mode = 'showcase') instead of the first command and execute.
   OR
   copypaste the code inside App.r (the .R file within the app-1 folder you have downloaded) into the 
   R script and execute it/hit the button "run app" in the top right corner of your source panel. 

PLEASE note that this application is just a practical exercise to get familiar with shinyapp. 
While it can still be useful to some scope and provide certain information, it is not a refined model. 
If you are looking for a place to learn shinyapp, try visit https://shiny.rstudio.com/gallery/

thank you for the attention!
